---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-19-arcade-class/11-arcade/11-00-arcade-genre/","pinned":"true","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

**Arcade** games include a variety of gameplay styles, and those included in this genre are essentially that which epitomize the [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/10. Arcade Class\|Arcade Class]]. These games emphasize replayability, with the audience intended to master the mechanics for higher scores.

Though the genre is named after the machines its games originated from, non-arcade games like *Blast Corps* ([[90 - 99 Resources/91. Companies/91.13. Rare\|Rare]], 1998) or *Katamari Damacy* ([[90 - 99 Resources/91. Companies/91.04. Namco\|Namco]], 2004) have brought the arcade experience to home consoles.

## Subgenres

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/11. Arcade/11.01. Ball and Paddle\|Ball and Paddle]]
- Ball and Paddle games have the player move along a fixed axis to bounce an object away from entering their field.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/11. Arcade/11.02. Block Breaker\|Block Breaker]]
- Block Breaker games have the player control a paddle at the bottom of the screen to bounce a ball upward, clearing a field of blocks arranged at the top of the screen.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/11. Arcade/11.03. Arcade Maze\|Arcade Maze]]
- Arcade Maze games restrict player movement to a maze, while requiring players to complete an objective and/or avoid enemies.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/11. Arcade/11.04. Arcade Snake\|Arcade Snake]]
- Arcade Snake games require the player to collect items on a field while avoiding an ever-increasing trail left by their movement.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/11. Arcade/11.05. Pinball\|Pinball]]
- Pinball games are… Pinball. You know. Pinball.