---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-19-arcade-class/12-shooting/12-00-shooting-genre/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


## Gameplay
**Shooters** center around firing and dodging projectiles.

<div class="youtube-embed"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ITuDFTdRk-4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

## Subgenres

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.01. Fixed Shooter\|Fixed Shooter]]
- **Fixed Shooters** are those in which the player character moves along a single axis and fires shots to defeat waves of enemies.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.02. Area Shooter\|Area Shooter]]
- **Area Shooters** provide free range of movement in a set area, where the player is tasked with eliminating waves of enemies.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.03. Tube Shooter\|Tube Shooter]]
- **Tube Shooters** wrap movement on a fixed axis around the screen to provide a pseudo-3D effect.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.04. H-SHMUP\|H-SHMUP]]
- **H-SHMUPS**, the horizontally-scrolling cousin to [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.05. V-SHMUP\|V-SHMUPs]], feature a forced scrolling screen that typically moves left to right.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.05. V-SHMUP\|V-SHMUP]]
- **V-SHMUPs**, short for Vertically-Scrolling Shoot 'em Ups, remove the single-axis movement restriction of [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.01. Fixed Shooter\|Fixed Shooters]] while the field of play automatically scrolls vertically.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.06. Top-Down Shooter\|Top-Down Shooter]]
- **Top-Down Shooters** allow for the player to shoot and move in, at minimum, four directions from an overhead perspective.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.07. Platforming Shooter\|Platforming Shooter]]
- **Platforming Shooters** incorporate player-based physics with the same fundamental goals of shooting and dodging projectiles.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.08. Gallery Shooter\|Gallery Shooter]]
- **Gallery Shooters** are pure pointing and shooting, where the player often uses a physical light gun to eliminate enemies.

### [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.09. Rail Shooter\|Rail Shooter]]
- **Rail Shooters** feature a “behind-the-shoulder” perspective, combining the free movement of [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.05. V-SHMUP\|V-SHMUPs]] with the 3D that defines [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.08. Gallery Shooter\|Gallery Shooters]].