---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/01-overview/","tags":["gardenEntry"],"dg-note-properties":{}}
---

>[!quote] Émile Durkheim, The Division of Labor in Society (1893)
>*Things can no longer be contained in the social molds according to which they were primitively classified.*

Ten thousand million new video games are released every year. On top of that, twenty thousand billion games already exist. How does one… I dunno, how does one know where to start? Know what’s important? Explore what clicks with them? Find more of what they already love? There is no consistent method of categorizing games, and in my opinion, this harms video games as a whole. It prevents us from finding what we want, and it prevents developers from making what they want.

**We need to create our own, independent taxonomy for games.**

(big epic logo goes here)

Uhhhhh so yeah, that's what we're doing and there's a whole lot of good reasons why, poke around the proposed [[02. Taxonomy\|Taxonomy]] and [[03. Rating System\|Rating System]] to get the underlying theory, or go straight to [[04. Find Games!\|Find Games!]] if you want to use that tool. I'll rewrite this later, I promise.

>[!note] **Author's Note, 5/20/2026**
>The Game Genealogy (fka the Belmont Index) is a semi-retired passion project developed in 2024. I'm currently trying to clean up all the information I previously had, but it's unlikely I'll have serious time or energy to devote to it in the near future. 
>
>This website now serves as a sort of pilot project in case anyone would like to build off these foundations or collaborate. If you have any suggestions, please drop me a line at [belmontindex@gmail.com](mailto:belmontindex@gmail.com)!