---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/04-find-games/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

**Ready to put the [[02. Taxonomy\|Taxonomy]] and [[03. Rating System\|Rating System]] to the test?**

<iframe width="600" height="450" src="https://datastudio.google.com/embed/reporting/491eb79f-482c-4cb0-8245-9ad29ac3a5f0/page/p_rz0epo4mpd" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen sandbox="allow-storage-access-by-user-activation allow-scripts allow-same-origin allow-popups allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox"></iframe>

*note: you can also use this [direct link](https://lookerstudio.google.com/s/kmLtYyA471k) if the embedded version does not work.*

## How To Use
There are three main tabs on this tool:

- **SEARCH** includes filters for all the various data points in case you want to sort by a certain category. (Data is entered manually, so please forgive me if there is incomplete or incorrect information.)

- **CHART** might be a more helpful visualization, allowing you to narrow down the playing field of a specific genre or subgenre through the rating system.

- **KEY**, as you might expect, is just there for reference.

## What is This?
Basically, this is the practical tool that comes as a result of the Game Genealogy project. It's only a rough prototype since I don't yet have the coding ability to make something super polished, but I think it gets the main idea across.

I’ve been around video games my whole life, but within the past few years, I’ve felt pretty disconnected from the medium. I’m not sure the AAA developers are making the types of games I want to see, and it feels like a full-time job to keep track of indies that fill the void. More often than not, “gaming” was replaced by organizing a collection of 30-year-old ROMs. But every now and then, stumbling upon gold just made me wish there were a better way to… find what I wanted to play. So this is my proposed answer - I hope you like it!