---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/05-faq/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

>[!info] **Last Updated:** June 30, 2026. More to come!

## [[02. Taxonomy\|Taxonomy]]
### Q. Supersubgenres?? How deep does it really need to go?

**A.** Well it could probably go infinitely, but I guess it's up to each person! The benefit of a hierarchical system, I think, is that if someone just likes any kind of running and jumping around, then all [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/16. Platforming/16.00. Platforming Genre\|platformers]] will be right for them. No further categories needed. Meanwhile, someone that only likes a certain style of [[60 - 69 Perspectives/64. 3D\|3D]] *Super Mario* games will probably appreciate the distinction between [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/16. Platforming/16.02. Linear Platformer\|linear platformers]] like *Galaxy* and [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/16. Platforming/16.06. Sandbox Platformer\|sandbox platformers]] like *Odyssey*.
- Regardless, some categories are super niche, so these can be helpful for introduction and discovery. In aaalllllll the hundreds of games in the [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.00. Shooting Genre\|Shooting Genre]], what are the odds someone falls in love with *Wild Guns* and doesn't realize other [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.01. Fixed Shooter#Gallery Fixed Shooters\|Gallery Fixed Shooters]] are out there?! That would be such a travesty.

### Q. Why not just call genres "Games like {XYZ}"?

**A.** There are definitely some convenience aspects to doing this that are hard to ignore. More people would understand "a game like *Smash Bros.*" versus describing a [[30 - 39 Social Class/31. Fighting/31.02. Platforming Fighter\|Platforming Fighter]], or "a game like *Star Fox*" instead of saying [[10 - 19 Arcade Class/12. Shooting/12.09. Rail Shooter\|Rail Shooter]]. However, I think this costs us in the long run.
- Using single games to encapsulate a genre or subgenre implicitly sets them as the reference point rather than just an example. Because *Smash Bros.* is notable for its character roster of different franchises crossing over, is that what a "game like it" must do? Further, a dominant reference point tends to become the exclusive "legitimate" output of its genre or subgenre, which sets a negative tone for other games then viewed as copying the reference rather than contributing to the shared advancement of the genre.

## [[03. Rating System\|Rating System]]

